---
layout: post
title: "Learn more about us and our upcoming project."
excerpt: "By Techools - RMIT Melbourne."
tags: 
  - Techools
  - weAreTeam13
  - Project
  - RMIT

---

Dear reader, it is a pleasure to welcome you to Techool's posts section. Being similar to a notice board, we will update this page from time to time whenever there will be new information about our upcoming project. 

Our team consists of Sajid, Dirk, Gordon, Adam, Mike and Stephen. You can find link's to our websites with additional projects by clicking the projects button in the top righthand-side corner.

## Team personalities profile

To compare the personalities and learning styles of the group, the three tests used were the Myers-
Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) Test, Mumford and Honey Learning Style Questionnaire (Mumford an
Honey LSQ), and Big Five Personality Test (Big Five).
Table 1 shows the test results of each of the group members. For the MBTI, the profile plus the generic function attributed to each personality profile is shown. The Mumford and Honey LSQ
results show the category of learning style. For the Big Five results, the highest and lowest traits, by
percentages, are shown.

The MBTI test results show that all team members are predominately introverted. There are an equal
number of people who are either Sensing (S) or Intuitive (N) in the way they take in information and
seen as Judging (J) or Perceiving (P) in the way they deal with the world. However, four of the six
members have a preference in making decisions based on Feelings (F) and the impact on those
around them and their environment, rather than Thinking (T), which tends to use analysis and logic for
decision making (Truity 2020).

The personality types in the generic functions attributed to the members’ profiles include functions
which are more supportive rather than leading, including Counsellor, Composer, Healer and
Protector which support the Feeling trait, and the Inspector and Architect reflecting the Thinking
trait (Truity 2020). However, based on the team members’ preferred styles, there are no members
who are natural leaders, teachers, performers or visionaries, which are functions associated with
extroversion.

From a group perspective, the absence of people who are predominately extroverted means that
the team members may need to assume roles which are less natural to them. Based on other skills
and attributes of the individual members, team members will assume Leading, Championing or
Teaching roles within different parts of the teams project work.
The Mumford and Honey LSQ results show that all members are predominately Reflectors. The
preferred learning style of Reflectors is to learn by observing and thinking about what they see and
hear. They are also more likely to stand back consider information from a number of perspectives and
collect data before working towards appropriate outcomes. For the team, it means that members
collect and process information in a similar way, based on facts, real experience and data (Mint
Human Resources 2020). From a team learning perspective, this will make it easier for team
members to understand to present information, as it will generally reflect their preferred way to
receive information.
The Big Five results confirm that Extroversion is one of the lower scoring traits for most members.
This is consistent with the MBTI results and the Reflector style within Mumford and Honey LSQ (Open
Source Psychometrics Project 2020). The other important outcomes from the Big Five results is that
Agreeableness and Intellect/Imagination are generally high. This suggests that for team dynamics
the Agreeableness trait should mean that the team will be able to work through the issues and
information in the project work and arrive at consensual decisions on the work and conduct. The

Intellect/Imagination scores for the team should mean that the team will be able to process even
reasonably complex data and concepts and be able to comprehend the team’s work and discussions.
Therefore, the key issues of which the team members should be aware, are the lack of people who
naturally extroverted or more likely to assume leadership positions within the team. This will
require the team members to consciously participate in team discussions and to take on the
leadership of parts of these projects based on their particular skills, where otherwise they would
generally feel more comfortable in supporting roles. However, as indicated above, the fact that all
team members have the same learning style, are high on agreeableness and reasonable levels of
intelligence and imagination should make for effective teamwork.

## Team project

# Project Idea
Techools – The after-school care of the future
There is the common consensus that education is a fundamentally important area of society, one with
the power to enable us to create the future we want to live in. Developing the project put forward here,
we addressed a range of modern-day issues in society. Traditional curriculums are diverging more
frequently from the direction society is heading and creative innovation cannot be learned by
memorisation. Taking this into account, we developed a project that combines technology with today’s
future potential, which is young learners across the globe. Named Techools, it is modelled after the
typical after-school care system, providing hands-on Tech education, the gamification of learning,
homework-assistance and meals. It’s unique aspects stem from a focus on teaching internet safety,
responsible use and other emerging issues our society faces, along with providing exposure to
robotics, programming and digital arts.

# Why it is needed?
Our project highlights the benefit of early IT education while addressing the state of the society we live
in. Most modern-day families now have two working parents and there is an increased need for
providing relevant after-school care to a generation born into the tech revolution. Children’s minds
must be kept stimulated during their downtime after school, with activities which are fun and also
useful for future development. Partly, this is because, if children of today are not well adapted to
technology, they will not be able to keep up with the rapid technological advancements we are
experiencing in today’s world. Furthermore, learning IT skills at an early age will benefit everybody in
society, not just people who plan on having a career in IT. The technology is around us everywhere
and is here to stay. Additionally, soon it is said that many of the jobs we have today will be lost to
automation, and these automated systems will need people to create, optimise and control them.

